skeletal designs (#20)
Speed-Patterns/speed-patterns: src/patterns/skeletal_designs.md

## In-Progress State

This technique allows the *in-progress state* of the page to be helpful to user-experience, rather than a hinderance. 

Defining the in-progress state should be a delibarate part of the design process.

## Why this is needed

<section class="textimagepair">

<div>
<p>This solves the problem of the empty screen: instead of having to wait for data to show up, the user can see visual cues and information about the page's content before the actual data has arrived.</p>

<p>These cues can be multiple things:</p>

<ul>
<li>known headers and titles for sections of the document </li>
<li>field names ex: price, amount of items</li>
<li>the visual layout of the page</li>
<li>zones for different content on the page</li>
</ul>

<p>Why are zones important?
They allow users to do a first pass and understand the structure of the page ahead of time, which allows for easier navigation of the data once the page has fully loaded.</p>

</div>

<video muted autoplay loop>
<source src="/assets/skeletal_designs_diagrams/owlboi2.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

</section>

> This helps reduce cognitive load for users, which reduces the stress of taking in the site. By having the zones establish their dimensions and prupose at the beginning of the loaing process, and the final content filing in to that structure, the strain of the user to take in the whole is spread out over the loading time and thus reduced. As opposed to having to first wait and recieve no information, and then being hit by a large amount of information and struggling to get your bearings when you would want to start navigating already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps reduce cognitive load for users, which reduces the stress of taking in the site. By having the zones establish their dimensions and purpose at the beginning of the loading process, and the final content filing in to that structure, the strain of the user to take in the whole is spread out over the loading time and thus reduced. As opposed to having to first wait and receive no information, and then being hit by a large amount of information and struggling to get your bearings when you would want to start navigating already.
```

<figure>
<img src="/assets/skeletal_design_perception_time_diagram.svg" width="100%" alt="Diagram showing dirstribution of perception over loading time"/>
<figcaption>Diagram showing dirstribution of perception over loading time</figcaption>
</figure>

## Things to avoid

<section class="textimagepair">
<div>
It is critical to avoid layout shift once content loads. You want to make sure that the zones the users see before the page loads match the final layout. Otherwise users would have to make another pass to readjust to the page structure, defeating the purpose of having the zones during loading, and nullifying the advantages this would provide, namely the user having a map of navigation of the page.

<p class="callout">
<a href="https://web.dev/articles/cls">Cumulative Layout Shift</a> (CLS) metric that is part of Core Web Vitals is a measure of layout shift and is useful for tracking it for both skeletal designs and during regular page load.
</p>
</div>

<video muted autoplay loop width="350" height="300">
<source src="/assets/skeletal_designs_diagrams/graybox_loaded.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

</section>

> ### Wave-ey Gray Boxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Avoid Generic Wave-ey Gray Boxes
```
